Add roadmap for 2021 for Eventing, Eventing Sources and Event Delivery WGs (#4863)
knative/eventing: docs/roadmap-2021.md

# Eventing
## Next 3 Months (Short-term)
### Event Discovery
[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

> **Owner:** Grant Rodgers

Reviewer: I believe we (Google) need more time to think about our preferred approach. @markito you expressed interest in this item. Would you be able to take over ownership? If not I think it makes sense to punt it to the 6 month timeframe.

@Haolicopter @eclipselu please correct me if I'm wrong

Author: yes Red Hat is interested in this topic and it's taking a big portion of what we want to work on for 2021. @lberk you've this already under your radar, wdyt?

**Owner:** Francesco Guardiani

### Tenant Targeted Logging
Hosting Knative as a multi-tenant cloud offering, there is currently no means to distinguish logging events that are necessary for servicing the hosted Knative service and those that may be meaningful to a tenant consuming the service.  The tenant of the hosted service would like to see besides their hosted application logging, pertinent log messages from Knative service to help diagnose their issues. However, providing all logging messages from the Knative service internals would be counterproductive for a tenant not familiar with Knative internals

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

**Owner:** Rick Rineholt

### Autotrigger Sugar Controller
[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4547

**Owner:** Scott Nichols

### Remove v1beta1 API [eventing, flows, messaging]
[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4836

**Owner:** Ville Aikas

## Next 6 Months (Midterm)
### Protocol negotiation contract
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multiple protocol and protocol option support

> **GitHub Issue:** TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4868
```

**Owner:** Grant Rodgers

### Preflight protocol negotiation
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multiple protocol and protocol option support

> **GitHub Issue:** TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4868
```

[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/219

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

### GitHub Vanity domain support
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-github/issues/65

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

### Find Maintainers for source repos
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** No repo left behind

**GitHub Issue:** We should create one if we think this is valuable

**Owner:** Ville Aikas

### v1 for Core Sources
[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

**Owner:** ?

## Next 6 Months (Midterm)
### Multi-Tenant RedisStream Source
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

## Icebox
### Removal of v1alpha1 Sources
[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

## Won’t Do
__These are the issues the working group decided to not work on whether for being out of the WG scope or some other reason

# Event Delivery
## Next 3 Months (Short-term)
### Kafka Code Share Improvements
[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Kafka Code Share Improvements

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

> **Owner:** Matthias

Reviewer 2: Ali, Eric, Matthias , Travis

Reviewer 2: @travis-minke-sap @aliok

Reviewer 3: 👍 Yeah, we are focused on our internal delivery deadlines for the short term.  There are still a few changes to the distributed kafkachannel that I'd like to make to move us toward commonality but nothing shared.  Thanks Matthias!

Author: @matzew we agreed in the roadmap call that we would like to keep the "Owner" a single person. An item can have one owner and many people driving the work. He's just the single point of contact on the roadmap doc.

https://knative.dev/community/contributing/mechanics/release-versioning-principles/). We guarantee 9 months of support for v1beta1 APIs. This makes the release 18/05/2021 the earliest release where we can remove v1beta1 API, and we want to target that release.

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4836

**Owner:** Ville Aikas

## Next 6 Months (Midterm)

### Protocol negotiation contract

Defined a standard that senders and receivers could use to communicate or negotiate protocol versions and features for a request, or a connection session to advance our capabilities, without leaving existing containers behind.

**Theme:** Multiple protocol and protocol option support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4868

**Owner:** Grant Rodgers

### Preflight protocol negotiation

[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multiple protocol and protocol option support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4868

**Owner:** Grant Rodgers

## Icebox (Wishlist)

### Cross Namespace Eventing

[Description TBD]

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

**Owner:** Grant Rodgers

### Streaming Processing

> [Description TBD]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The goal of this proposal is to build an efficient event mesh that allows stateless and stateful even processing. We want to empower end users to describe event flows, made by streams and processors.
```

> **GitHub Issue:** TBD

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4901
```

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

## Won’t Do

_These are the issues the working group decided to not work on whether for
being out of the WG scope or some other reason_

# Eventing Sources

## Next 3 Months (Short-term)

### Introduce and define Multi-tenant Sources

[Description TBD]

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** TBD

**Owner:** Scott Nichols

### Multi-Tenant Kafka Source

> Introduce a multi-tenant KafkaSource with a Multi-tenant receive adapter that handles more than one source instance at a time, typically all source instances in a namespace or all source instances in a cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Introduce a multi-tenant KafkaSource implementation capable of handling more than one source instance at a time, typically all source instances in a namespace or all source instances in a cluster.
```

The goal of multi-tenant receive adapters is to minimize the cost of running sources that are barely (i.e. no or few processed events) used at a particular point in time.  

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/219

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

### GitHub Vanity domain support

The MT githubsource controller generates webhook of the form `http://githubsource-adapter.knative-sources.<domain>/<ns>/<name>` where `ns` and `name` corresponds the githubsource CR.

Instead it should generate webhook of the form `http://<name>.<ns>.<domain>.`

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-github/issues/65

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

### v1 for Core Sources

Let's promote PingSource to v1

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative/eventing/issues/4865

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

### v1 for Kafka Sources

Let's promote KafkaSource to v1

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/389

> **Owner:** Matthis Wessendorf

Reviewer 4: Matthis -> Matthias

## Next 6 Months (Midterm)

### Multi-Tenant RedisStream Source

> [Description TBD]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Introduce a multi-tenant KafkaRedis implementation capable of handling more than one source instance at a time, typically all source instances in a namespace or all source instances in a cluster
```

**Theme:** Multi-Tenant environment support

> **GitHub Issue:** TBD

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-redis/issues/95
```

**Owner:** Lionel Villard

## Icebox

## Won’t Do

_These are the issues the working group decided to not work on whether for
being out of the WG scope or some other reason_

# Event Delivery

## Next 3 Months (Short-term)

### Kafka Code Share Improvements

KafkaChannel code refactorings to increase code sharing between the two implementations

**Theme:** Kafka Code Share Improvements

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/386

**Owner:** Matthias

## Next 6 Months (Midterm)

### KafkaChannel Unification

Desired exit goal: One backing implemetation for the `KafkaChannel` API.

**Theme:** Kafka Code Share Improvements

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/386

**Owner:** Matthias

### V1 for KafkaChannel

Promote the `KafkaChannel` to V1

**Theme:** Kafka Code Share Improvements

**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/386

**Owner:** Matthias

### Various QoS guarantees for Kakfa

Today only at-least-once and ordered is supported by the Kafka-backed channel
implementation. At-most-once and unordered should also be supported.

> **GitHub Issue:** TBD

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/knative-sandbox/eventing-kafka/issues/413
```
